Hi will come back in this video we're going to look at some method some method is a built in method
in Python and what it does is just allows you to add together a list of numbers and give you a quick
example of what the method can do.
I'm going to print and what's going to go inside the print is the same method with a list of numbers
1 3 and 5.
So as you know what's going to happen is we are going to execute some method with this list and then
we're going to print that out.
So the thing that is inside the innermost thing gets executed first and the next one then the next one
.
The first thing we'll do is create that list then execute the method with that and then print that out
Let's run that just so you guys can see what's going to happen and naturally what you would expect is
as the name says for these things to be added together.
I need what you get out is 9 which is one plus three plus five.
So this method is there.
So you don't have to do the for loop yourself and add the things together.
It just makes things a bit easier really using this method.
We are now going to create another method in our program to calculate the average grade or average mark
of one of the students like in previous videos.
I'm going to give you some structure of what the method is going to look like.
And then I would ask you to implement it so that you can solidify your learning.
I would call this method calculate average mark and it would take in a student.
And remember this student is really a dictionary in this format.
So you know it's going to have a name and you know it's going to have a Marx key and the market is going
to be a list of numbers probably integers although it could be floating point numbers as well.
Then what this method is going to do is add together all of the student marks and divide them by the
total number of marks and that would give you an average something you may want to think about as well
as what happens if the student has no marks yet.
Adding together all of that you need marks.
You can do with some method you just have to some student marks and that would give you the total dividing
the total number of marks you can do using the len method that we've seen before.
LEN of student marks will give you the total count of marks and if you divide the total marks by the
count of marks that will give you an average.
However remember that if the count is 0 you would be dividing by zero and that will give you an error
.
I would recommend now posing the video on giving this ago.
You may want to ignore the last what happens if the student has no marks because that's a bit of an
edge case.
You can ignore that just for now and we cover that in just a moment and just go ahead and do that and
then come back and we'll implement the first couple of parts and then the last Bargewell
OK number you've tried that.
Let's go ahead and do all of these things.
The first thing is to calculate the total sum of the student marks.
So total can be sum of student marks and as we know this is going to add them all up and put the resultant
value inside our total variable.
And then we are going to divide them by the total number of marks so we could say a number is Lenn of
student marks.
We know this is how we can calculate the count of elements in a list.
And finally we can return total divided by number.
However we've not thought about what happens if the student has no marks.
What happens is that Lin would be zero.
And then we would be dividing something by zero and therefore we would get an error.
So we want to avoid that.
And really the only way to avoid doing that is if number is 0 returns 0 and have not returned.
Total divide among them.
That's the only realistic way that we could do that in a readable fashion.
There are other ways but they're not quite as nice.
And I won't be including them here just because I don't give you any benefit and they just make things
a bit more difficult.
So this is the way I would recommend you check for something and then return something if if it's required
.
So in this case the only case that we might encounter is that number is 0.
So we want to do something if that case does happen.
However just something to think about we are calculating the sum of student marks and then we're looking
at that number and if the number is 0 we are not using the total.
So therefore for this part of our code if the number is 0 we don't need to calculate the total at all
.
So therefore I would put the total under here.
It just makes things a bit more optimal.
You don't have to calculate the total if the count is zero.
So you might as well put it below so that if the count is 0 you don't even get to that line at all and
you don't have to execute that code and therefore that seems a bit of time and a bit of processing power
does make things a bit more efficient.
Now you can delete the comments and however make sure to lay this out nicely.
For example something like that adding a bit of space and making sure that the code is readable.
So the first thing we do is calculate how many students how many marks the student hands.
And if that is zero then we return zero.
And if it isn't zero we are continuing below.
We add them all up and then return the total divided by the number of marks which should be the average
.
And now we've done that.
It comes to testing it and seeing if what we've got works.
And as you know in order to test a method just at the end we can print things out.
That's what we would expect from the method.
So the first thing to do would be to create a student and then we would print out the average mark of
that student.
We could then add a mark to the student and print out the average mark again.
I would recommend once again pause the video give this a go.
And it create the student printout the average mark which would be zero.
Then Adam Mark.
And then print out the average mark again which would be that Mark.
And so on.
Give it a couple of test cases so that you can make sure that that is work.
Pause the video.
Go ahead and do that and then come back and we'll continue.
OK.
Now that we've got that the first thing I would do is print calculate average marks for s s being this
student that I just created and then I would add a mark to s for example 5.
And then I would print the average mark again and then wrong.
I would duplicate that again.
But with a different grade with remark and now we should see seven point five printed out at the end
.
So let's run that and I put my name in and indeed that's what happens.
We get 0 first because that's the average mark when we don't have any.
And then we've Gamp 5.0 and then seven point five which is five plus 10 divided by two.
And now we can verify that this does work.
So we can now delete that test code and we can continue in the next video with the next bit which is
printing out a list of students so that the user can then see the details about all of the students
they've got.
And this just sort of you're the next